>> Kyle Simpson: So now let's turn our
attention to double equals versus triple
triple equals.
Many people have asserted, well,
I don't see any purpose to == and
I've heard that there's these weird
corner cases that could bite me,
so I'm just gonna use === forever.
Always, always use ===.
Linters will tell you that,
books will tell you that,
speakers will tell you that,
teachers will tell you that.
I happen to be the only one,
it seems, stands up and
says, maybe we ought to use both.
Maybe there are times double equals
is useful, as matter of fact,
I think there are some very
important times when it's useful.
So I'm gonna compare
the usage of these two.
How many of you have heard this before,
double equals checks the value and
triple equals checks the value and
the type?
Anybody heard that before?
As the description for what's going on.
This is the most common man,
if you will, description for this.
Unfortunately, it's false.
That is not at all the difference
between those two operators.
How do I know?
Cuz I read the spec.
Turns out, the difference between them
is the double equals allows coercion and
the triple equals disallows coercion.
They both test equality.
One of them allows coercion to occur
first and one of them doesn't.
And just that one simple fact
reframes this whole debate.
It reframes this debate as a question of,
in this particular comparison, would it be
useful or helpful for me, or more readable
for me, to allow coercion to occur?
If so, use double equals.
In this particular comparison,
would a coercion be troublesome,
would it be problematic for me?
If so, don't allow coercion.
Avoid the double equals and
use triple equals instead.
The question should not be which one
is right and which one is wrong?
What does Linter say?
The question is, for this statement,
for this comparison,
which one is the more appropriate action,
coercion or not?
We've already established
that coercion is useful,
we've already established that coercion
can sometimes make code more readable.
So you just have to decide if this
particular comparison could benefit from
the coercion or not.
Everybody with me?
>> Kyle Simpson: Here's the spec for
the double equals,
it happens to be referred to as the
Abstract Equality Comparison algorithm.
This is the entirety of them,
that's really it.
This thing that you've been taught as this
black magic box that can't possibly learn,
is ten lines long, and
most of it is spec fluff, okay?
You could spend ten
minutes reading this and
be an expert on this algorithm
better than 99.99% of your peers.
And that's all I did was read the spec,
shocking as it sounds.
It's actually pretty straightforward.
Right here on the very first item,
number 1,
we see exactly what I was talking about,
which is that it checks the type.
Wait a minute, why is the double
equals checking the type?
Cuz it turns out both
of them check the type.
It's just that they differ on what
they do with that information, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: Now somebody was
asking online about the null.
You'll see items 2 and 3 specifically
call out null and undefined.
They say if one of them's null and the
other one's undefined, or one of them's
undefined and the other one's null,
if that's the case, return true.
In other words, make null and undefined
coercively equal to each other, and
to no other values in the language.
That turns out to be a really useful fact,
actually.
One of my most favorite
facts about JavaScript,
because I don't like the confusion of
having two different empty values,
I find that to be frustrating.
What this means is I can treat null and
undefined as coercively equivalent.
I don't have to have two empty values.
Regardless of whether it's null or
undefined, I can allow coercion to hide
that unneccessary detail,
thereby making my code simpler.
>> Kyle Simpson: I see some skeptical
looks on faces, that's okay.
You're gonna get a chance in a moment
to work on an exercise where you get to
practice this yourself.
And remember I mentioned earlier,
this algorithm prefers numeric comparison.
Here's where we see that.
>> Kyle Simpson: If the type
of one is a number and
the type of the other is a string, make
the one that's not a number into a number.
We just see that over and over again.
There is a default preference
to compare numbers.
That doesn't override the null and
undefined as we saw but
it does say if we have non-null
non-undefined primitives,
turn them into numbers cuz number
comparison is more efficient.
Weather or not it's more efficient,
it's also a fact that once you learn will
make this algorithm more predictable,
even if you don't like the outcome,
at least it's more predictable.
You follow that?
Even if you disagree with it,
at least you move it out of the realm
of being an unknown to being
in the realm of being a known.
I know what it's gonna do.
It's gonna compare them as numbers.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
here are some examples.
I got an empty array and an empty string.
And that should be some warning
bells that tell me don't use ==,
cuz here the coercion would be dangerous.
Avoid line 3, do line 6 instead.
Make the comparison with triple, okay?
I got a 0 and
an empty string on lines 10 and 11.
Avoid double equals,
that's a warning sign.
use triple equals like line 14.
>> Kyle Simpson: But
what about cases where it can be useful?
>> Kyle Simpson: How about this one?
You start off with a value that may or
may not be string 3 or the number 3,
and you want to pass which
ever one of those two it is.
Your first option is line 2,
which is to say, === 3 or ===, quote, 3.
Now, there's no question that
that line is more explicit.
But when we compare that line to line 6,
line 6 allows coercion to occur,
where line 2 does not.
So my question to you is,
which one of those two lines
is on the whole more readable?
You make your own determination but I
would argue that line 6 is more readable.
Because for
the purposes of that decision making,
the actual underlying value type
is not a relevant fact to me.
The only thing that matters to me is that,
it's one of the two 3s.
And I'm allowing coercion to hide
the rest of that unnecessary detail.
Remember I said earlier that
the most readable code is code I
didn't have to read.
I don't need to read
two different comparisons when
one comparison will suffice.
And there is absolutely no corner
cases here to be worried about.
Cuz I know it is either going to be 3 or
string 3, so it's totally safe for
me to use a double equals and
simplify my code.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now that's
just one little micro example.
Null and undefined are another example.
Remember I said, null and undefined
are coercively equal to each other.
I can do a comparison check of ==null
like line 7 and it will catch the case of
null or undefined like line 2, but
it will not catch any other corner cases.
So I can either say,
double equal to null or
I can say triple equal to null,
or triple equal to undefined.
Do I really want to make it obvious to
the the reader of my code that there is
two different empty values
to be concerned about?
How about hide that
unnecessary information.
Now what I'm getting at here is
that those are my decisions,
they're my subjective decisions that
that improves those comparisons.
And these are just small little examples
plucked out of much larger patterns.
The only thing that I want you to do is
to walk away from this discussion saying,
I'm gonna think about it critically,
that's it.
I'm going to think about it critically and
make those decisions.
As opposed to, I'm just going to keep
on doing the same thing I've always
done because it doesn't matter.
It does matter.
The way we choose to express
our code does matter.
And understanding how to do the code is
the first step to expressing it better.
>> Speaker 2: So, in this particular case,
it comes down to style and the preference
of the team really, rather than-
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm
not sure I would totally
label this as style but
it definitely comes down to
idiomatic decision for the team.
Is the team willing to
say that we communicate
better by hiding unnecessary type
information in these places, or
is the team willing to
say we wanna be explicit?
If your team sits down and
has a conversation about that and
weighs the pros and cons.
And you end up saying, we wanna be more
explicit about it, you have my blessing.
But if your team just says, well,
that's what the Linter tells us.
To me, that's not a sufficient standard.
Does that help?
I'm not telling you what to conclude,
I'm just telling you that you should
think about it and debate it.